What is a "post short print"? Its much like a regular short print, except the scarcity is caused by someone other than the manufacturer destroying copies after the it has left the factory, causing that card to be worth more than other cards that have not been destroyed.

I don't know of any "post short prints" that exist but I know of some almost post short prints. Two come to mind:

1. 1952 Topps High Numbers: These were printed with the same quantity as the low number series, but the manufacturer destroyed many of them, hence them being worth more than low numbers. The reason why it isn't a real post short print is because the scarcity was caused by the manufacturer, instead of by a collector.

2. The 1964 Curt Flood hoarder: There is a guy who is hoarding 1964 Curt Flood cards, and I think he has like 30% of the entire population. The reason why this card isn't a real pot short print is because all these cards still exist. If the owner of this hoard wants to make the 64 Curt Flood a post short print, he could achieve this by burning his collection and posting a video of the burn on youtube. The result would be surviving Curt Flood's will be worth a bit more than it did before.

The two essential ingredients to creating a post short print are:

1) You have to destroy them, not just take them out of circulation.
2) You have to provide video proof.

If you do #1, but not #2, people will notice the card being more scarce than the rest of the cards in the set, but they will assume the card has been hoarded and so it will not hold a premium in price. The purpose of the video is to prove that the card has indeed been destroyed and not just hoarded.

There should be made a distinction between a unintentional post short print and an intentional post short print. If the Curt Flood hoarder guy's house burned down, that would be a post short print, but one that is not intentional. Nevertheless, the market effect would be same same (surviving examples will be worth more). An intentional post short print would be somebody hoarding a population and then burning them for the sole purpose of raising the price of surviving examples.

Some people may thing intentional short printing is unethical. In my opinion, it can be a legitimate way of having a collecting hobby. Many people buy cards to later sell off, why not collecting to later burn? It could be argued that it is for a good cause, as a post short print would bring attention to a card that otherwise would get very little attention.
